---
title: "Adaptive Weighted Graph Approach to Generate Multimodal Cancelable Biometric Templates"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/TIFS2020
excerpt: '<b>Abstract</b> - Multimodal biometric systems offer numerous advantages over unimodal counterparts and are being used extensively in diverse applications. [Read more](https://gaurav1302.github.io/publication/TIFS2020)
<br>
<b>DOI: </b>[10.1109/TIFS.2019.2954779](https://doi.org/10.1109/TIFS.2019.2954779)
<br>
[[Download PDF]](http://gaurav1302.github.io/files/TIFS2020.pdf) '
date: January 2020
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security'
# paperurl: '[Download PDF](http://gaurav1302.github.io/files/TIFS2020.pdf)'
citation: 'G. S. Walia, <u><b>G. Jain</b></u>, N. Bansal and K. Singh, "Adaptive Weighted Graph Approach to Generate Multimodal Cancelable Biometric Templates," in <i>IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security</i>, vol. 15, pp. 1945-1958, 2020.'

---

<b>Abstract</b> - Multimodal biometric systems offer numerous advantages over unimodal counterparts and are being used extensively in diverse applications. However, fusion of biometric data is a non-trivial task and curtail employability of multimodal systems for a varying set of biometric characteristics with different type and dimension. Moreover, comprehensive solutions against adversary attacks that ensure template protection and prevent presentation attacks are not in place. In this article, a secure multimodal cancelable biometric system is proposed to address these concerns. This approach introduces key images based generic feature extraction technique which reduces feature dimension and achieves revocability. The non-invertibility and unlinkability are ensured through cross-diffusion of complementary information from different modalities. A new feature fusion method based on an adaptive graph is proposed to generate multimodal cancelable biometric templates. Robustness against presentation attack is accomplished through quality based adaptation of features. Extensive experimentation is performed on benchmark databases for fingerprint, face, and iris, to illustrate the efficacy of multimodal cancelable templates. The proposed approach is shown to perform favorably against state-of-the-art feature fusion methods. Furthermore, the resilience of the proposed approach against security and privacy attacks is demonstrated.

DOI [10.1109/TIFS.2019.2954779](https://doi.org/10.1109/TIFS.2019.2954779)

[Download PDF](http://gaurav1302.github.io/files/TIFS2020.pdf)
